the amount of time that you spent on a
tangent was greater that so how did you
do that did you have a thought just now
oh I need to stop talking about this no
you didn't you just stop talking about
it
okay so um I even know how am i doing
yeah you know today's great but yeah I'm
happy you're really you're kind of good
direction honestly I have a [ __ ] do I do
this okay so here we go I like so doctor
can't I had an off stream talk two days
ago and I was sober I said I was sober
because I take something that I consider
a medication for depression in most days
sure but I was sober when we talked and
I actually I want you to describe it
what was your experience cuz here to
experience something clearer than mine
of the conversation yeah so how much
context do we want to share about the
conversation because I know there are
some things in the conversation I don't
care about anything in there is fine for
me to share so I'll to you well at one
point we talked about something where I
have to sign an NDA right so we
shouldn't talk about that okay just that
yeah right so okay but we didn't I
didn't go in-depth so it's fine okay I
just so I I wanted to just so what was
my impression of the conversation no you
can actually say anything you want to
say about anything in the conversation
because we didn't talk about the part of
the NDA because you haven't had you sign
it yet okay so whatever whatever you're
saying so but what was your question
[ __ ] I forgot that this point okay I
want to update the viewers on what
happened off stream because they missed
one therapy session that isn't therapy
it's not therapy right so that's
actually what we walked about right so
so I think my impression was we were
talking about clarifying what our
relationship is yeah and whether this is
therapy or this isn't therapy and what
our options are in terms of how to form
a relationship and I think that you know
the last time we talked on stream we had
a conversation about abandonment and
then I made a very bold claim because I
got emotional as well and I felt like I
wanted to be there for you so that you
no longer felt this way and I think
sometimes what
happens amongst people is that they have
different kinds of complexes and I have
them too and one of the things that
happens with me is when I see someone
hurting I want to make them better and
sometimes I will in that moment
say whatever I think they I can to make
them feel better but sometimes that's
irresponsible and I'm not I mean I think
in a sense it was irresponsible but I
think from our perspective we're trying
to understand you know like what is this
for you what is this for me what are we
doing on Twitch this is like kind of a
new thing and I think a common
perception is that if you're talking
about feelings with someone then that is
therapy but I think we can kind of say
like so so reckful also shared with me
that he had a great conversation for
several hours with poka main am I saying
that right now mm-hmm right where he
also talked about feelings and things
like that but I don't think that I don't
think that poka main is your therapist I
don't think I'm your therapist I think
you can talk to another human being
about feelings and you can explore
things that are authentic and important
to yourself and that doesn't necessarily
make you a therapist and so we were also
talking about the other options in terms
of like what are we are we like
colleagues like that that stream on
Twitch together we'd sort of talked a
little bit about you know things like
viewership and stuff like that I raised
some concerns about favoritism so I want
to try to treat people equally and I
just wanted to kind of acknowledge that
if one person is coming on stream over
and over again are we doing a disservice
to other people which I think you are so
I think I shouldn't come on stream over
and over again with you every week yeah
so I think and and so I think that that
too for me feels like it's closer to a
doctor-patient relationship which I
think becomes really complicated if
you're kind of working with someone week
after week you know and I think the
other thing that we expressed is that
like so I want to be rectals friend
right so but if I'm if I'm your friend
then can I be your doctor do I want to
be your doctor do I want to be your
friend and I think the the reason that
this kind of relates to reckful is
because I think reckful has I think he's
a very warm open and caring person and
also tangles up
relationships with people and it's
something that I actually do too so I
tend to tangle up relationships with
people I tend to not see things in terms
of black and white and that's the reason
I sorta like clean sure that's part of
the reason I started streaming anyway
because like no no one talks about
feeling like you know no therapist or
psychiatrist has come live on stream to
like talk to people about mental health
or the feelings I or maybe it does
happen and I just haven't heard of it
but I think that's a little bit
unorthodox and so we basically had a
conversation about like what are the
bounds of our relationship what's
acceptable what isn't acceptable I don't
think I mentioned this to him explicitly
but this was kind of running in my mind
so people forward me this clip forwarded
me this clip where reckful said that he
would pay a million dollars to to see me
do psilocybin and we didn't talk about
that right right yeah and so I think
that's a good example of like you know
what does that mean and like what what's
going on there so like what are you
looking for and like so our relationship
could get real money real fast right so
when people start and it's not the first
time this has happened where people will
offer me vast sums of money for X Y or Z
and and that just kind of makes me
concerned because like what are we
really doing so we just had a
conversation that was you know since in
the spirit of relationships and you know
a couple weeks from Valentine's Day we
had a DTR conversation you guys know
what that is
isn't a DTR what's a DTR DT I'm a sauce
define the relationship right and and so
I think it's important right because
like people like I want to be careful
about what we're doing on stream I want
to be our here to help people but I also
don't want to send the wrong message and
I also don't want to leave people
hanging and I think at times
I'll let reckful share sort of what he
remembered about it but I think at times
the conversation did get pretty
emotional and but that's for him to
share yes my piece he was saying that he
wanted to be there for me for the next
few years and then he but but the
problem
that kind of said it in a flurry flurry
of emotion I don't know if Larry's good
word uh while streaming he was getting
emotional himself he wanted to be there
for me so he said it but he hadn't
actually thought it through and what
that entails because he that is not a
licensed therapist in Texas and just a
lot of things you know how you'd have to
live in Texas to be my therapist in
Texas is how it works yeah so we also
did talk about you know whether you want
me to be your actual therapist and what
that would entail and the other thing is
that bit of research which is important
to remember is the the research on
people on BPD it's two years of someone
who's actually a romantic partner so
it's unclear whether a friend but yeah I
need to get in a relationship with a
girl for two years and have it actually
work out and that might cure my BPD with
yes and so this is this is what we also
kind of talked about I don't know if you
remember but like you know you know it's
not about curing and in the relationship
working out it's about developing a
couple not thinking in these terms yeah
okay yeah so so exactly so that's what
we need to change right so you think
about things in terms of working out or
not working out I think we had talked
about so what's gonna happen is you
enter relationships is that there are
gonna be stressful parts and not
stressful parts and if there is a
stressful part where you're some scar of
abandonment gets triggered then you may
act in a different kind of way and we
can talk about that like I'm curious
about you know your prior relationships
and things like that and as that some
scar activates it causes you to do
things that you normally wouldn't do and
those are kind of driven by that that
fear of abandonment process trauma
unprocessed trauma great way to put it
right so so some of the trauma of losing
your brother one brother and then
another brother like you're terrified
that like you'll lose someone else and
so you try to my other brothers still do
this means yeah around yeah and and so I
think what we need to help you do is
like use meditation or psilocybin or
however you want to but to gain
perspective on those moments and
essentially ride out those emotions so
that you can like not do something that
negatively impacts the relationship
so we need to help my my mind is stuck
on certain things right now yeah tell me
so I'm stuck on I like to get these
things solve they guess I'm I don't like
to be in detention so much beautiful
yeah so I'm in the tension of is he
gonna be my therapist or are we gonna be
friends because he said if he's my
therapist we can never travel together
anywhere like it changes how it is so I
thought was I was thinking I'd be cool
it'd be cool to go to Japan with with
dr. K sounds nice yeah feel nice yeah
just see how he experiences things and
have fun I don't know yeah so I
I really want a friend but you know that
I I'm thinking longer-term I'll have
friends so what I need is a therapist
maybe yeah so I think rather than
resolve that issue reckful I think the
important thing is that you said
something really really beautiful right
which is that you do not like the
tension it's a big problem in my life
yeah yeah I don't like the tension every
time I'm around a girl I like to just
have it resolved right away that okay
this is not gonna be anything romantic
for sure or it might I just want to get
it out of the way
let's is it okay if we talk about that
yeah that's a big problem for me in my
life sure so so why do you need to get
it resolved right away let's think about
that well okay let me know what don't
you like about being an attention I
don't know I have to figure it out I've
never know so absolutely right so so
let's think about this because like
here's the thing if she if the girl
decides to date you how can how things
it's really funny that I wanted you to
figure yeah I think they're pretty
laughing okay I mean I have an answer
for you but I'm gonna try to get you
there on your own yeah you want to give
me there yet yeah so so if you are so
how comfortable are you if she says yes
dude there's some problems hold on I'm a
boomer how the [ __ ] you scroll up into
which I know they changed something
I can't scroll up it just keep scrolling
down what is this and also someone said
my mic is too loud press control now
here's my mic too loud
cuz this is important to get fixed right
away and someone said I'm cutting him
off too much okay
you're cutting me not too much I don't
think I'm cutting you off too much okay
I need to stop reading it okay so I'll
just close it yeah everything's working
was close to a child chat okay I'm good
hello okay so reckful tell me how
comfortable are you if she says yes very
comfortable yeah I was really thinking
through how comfortable are you if she
says no also comfortable actually
there we go right so this is important
to understand you'd think and the word
that I'm using is is important right so
there's comfort so why are you
comfortable with her saying no is that I
have to think about it anymore it's not
what I want to happen it's not my
desired result but at least my mind
isn't in attention I'm just like okay I
can write it off as something yeah you
can write it off but what she's
rejecting you right yeah and you're
somehow okay with rejection
yes what life's not my it's not your
desired result I completely agree how
are you with it because it's [ __ ]
better than sitting there and wondering
all of them that is a griphon right so
that we're saying that the tension is
the problem but why is rigid outright
rejection better than then being left
wondering which I think a lot of people
can relate to this but let's just think
about it logically it's worse
yes logically it's worse because I have
no chance exactly that's what one would
think but but actually actually I love
this I love this conversation let's
think about it absolutely think about it
there's no hope if she leaves if she
says no right at least like in the
tension in theory there's hope and one
would think that hope is better than
rejection that's what one would think I
know why let's hear it okay cuz then
you're going through your days and
little events happen like a certain text
or like cutting the moat or like you
stupid things or just like that person
you see them if it's a real life thing
and then you wonder like this means
something did that mean something and it
clogs up all this mental effort for you
to be wondering all the time
and then for it to just be a no actually
makes your life easier in all those ways
because you can think about other things
I completely agree that that is still
not there [ __ ] you're there you're
you're there so that's what's bad you're
defining what's bad about being in the
tension and how you feel relief when you
get rejected so I'm not disagreeing
you're completely right I think you're
just missing one thing and the question
is why in particular reckful are you why
D why are you afraid of hope in okay
with rejection right because that's
another way to define this that sounds
[ __ ] up it does that's me yes [ __ ]
what do you think okay I'm afraid of
hope and I'm okay that's the tech
because the tension so sure there's like
a mental burden of you wonder if it's
right I'm afraid of hope but okay with
rejection
I'm afraid of hope and okay with is you
comfortable with rejection okay okay
it's a nice word I'm afraid of hope why
do you prefer certain failure to
uncertain success that's another way to
think about it right close my eyes and
think about it and see why do I prefer
certain failure
now should I go back in my life of
really far many years or should I just
think recently wherever you want to go
[ __ ] I want to do all right why do I
prefer certain failure to uncertain
success
oh man it's kind of like when I just
stopped streaming on Twitch for long
periods of time
mm-hmm and I passed what I was like I
just wanted to be a streamer as my main
career but I did the whole tension of
the numbers going up and down and not
like valve your accounts and not knowing
it was too much so I'd rather just run
away and closed at all not stream oh so
I prefer gutter yeah okay that's I did
that so you're right well I know you're
right I don't know why yeah I'm just
like I said this though I prefer I
prefer why am I afraid of hope but okay
with rejection
I'm not tweet that and let's see if
anybody knows okay can i tweet it sure
this is not helpful at all I just I want
to I want to see what people say yes why
am I afraid of hope but okay with
rejection so another way to think about
it that's how you worded it right why am
I afraid of hope but okay with rejection
yeah
sure so another way to think we did it
I've treated everyone answer okay so
another question is is why are you so
why are you okay with rejection but not
okay
why are you comfortable with rejection
but uncomfortable with conditional love
right so like unclear love that's the
other way to think about it okay
again why are you okay with rejection
but I am okay with it not okay with
conditional love I'm not okay with
conditional love right so like like
possible love does that what conditional
love means all right no it's it doesn't
mean for us so like let's say like
possible like so let me put it this way
the uncertainty possibly getting
rejected for you is worse than actually
getting rejected I can see that this is
a conversation you've had with people a
lot of times and it's not super
stimulating for you and that's
distracting me so I'm closing my eyes no
sorry I've just got a call and I need to
make sure it's not an emergency okay so
maybe my I just assumed a lot of things
yeah my thought process is better that a
second to [ __ ] got a lot of problems
okay so let me ask you another question
okay yeah
how much XP do you have how what if we
had to say you have different skill
levels right like you've gained XP at
like being in a relationship being
rejected and being in the tension how
much XP do you have in each of those
environments Oh a lot of experience
being in a relationship very good I've
experienced being single mmm-hmm
actually more experience being in a
relationship though and then
very little in attention it's right on
below level I'm bronze at being into
attention okay if we're using a for some
reason I like using the League of
Legends things the bronze silver gold
you know but diamond they dead dad and
Starcraft you yeah so sorrowful also
okay I'm bronze at being in attention I
might be like gold or high silver at big
interrelationship I'm not very good and
I'm man I'm not that good at being
single I'm not really good any of these
things okay so but I don't the worst at
being in attention for sure no no so but
being single is not it's being single is
not what that what we're talking about
we're talking about rejection that's not
the same as being single right I'm okay
with rejection yeah I'm chilling yes
because you have you have lost about a
lot reckful absolutely right because you
have lost people before and you have
survived yeah I'm fine
I think so yeah not because I mean so
think about that for a second be you've
gotten used to it right like you've
gotten used to people leaving yeah and
you can handle a [ __ ] okay yeah you're
right does that make sense so the
certain rejection is an area that you
actually have a lot of experience that's
it is it's very sad right I'm gonna put
you in the headphones okay I want to
hear you closer okay when it's tangled
over here okay
I'm realizing that it's silly for me to
untangle this at this time
okay done now hello yeah so like if you
think about it your XP with with
rejection and losing people is actually
like you're super high level later right
so it hurts there's no question that it
hurts but your capability to deal with
it is good actually I'm [ __ ] diamond
at getting rejected absolutely thanks
bro but like you started learning that
at a very young age right you started
learning rejection and loss when you
were super young and then each time it
happens you get you level up a little
bit and so you become more comfortable
with it yeah
what's terrifying is like you don't know
if people are gonna stay or leave like
you can deal with either camp you can be
in a relationship or you can be rejected
from relationship you can have someone
say I never want to see you again and
it's painful and you but you survive
because you know how to do that because
you're actually really resilient and you
have like like you know like winning and
losing is doable it's it's the hope
right because this is like you can only
like let yourself hope for relationships
so many times and like each time someone
ends their relationship with you it
hurts like more and more and more and it
gets harder and harder and harder to
like try to love again you're right
right so it's like
just need to know because like the
possibility like the possibility that
they're gonna say yes is just so
terrifying because the flipside of
uncertain acceptance is also uncertain
rejection so the possibility of
rejection is worse than rejection itself
mm-hmm it's the not knowing yes right
and so even now like I like some a girl
a girl told me really recently that or
she was telling another girl and she
told me that she did this that that I'm
really weird in the 10th in that tension
spot she didn't use the word tension
button and like that I want to just know
right away that it's not a relationship
thing she was telling another girl that
I'm weird like that and other people are
comfortable just being hey maybe this
will be and maybe this won't yes yeah
that is that that's what we have right
now she had to do yeah I want to do bill
to it okay so I'm tempted actually ask
you to meditate because I wonder if
let's do it in your state of mind this
will something maybe something you can
appreciate if we took our talked about
the moment where inhalation becomes
exhalation before you seen this I talked
to you about this the moment when
inhalation becomes inhalation wait wait
so I'm having one of those waters I know
this is weird a moment you know you know
when you're looking at a word for a long
time and it starts to look like it isn't
a word I've had that happen before I
never had happen your life where I look
at a word for a long time and I stare at
a word for a long time and you're like
wait is this actually a word that's how
you spell this word you've never had a
happen I don't can't believe you never
had that up and I mean maybe maybe I
have I've I've I've had that experience
with things besides words okay but just
maybe not with a word okay I don't know
if I've just stared in elation inhale
exhale in elation exhalation there well
you have inhalation and you have
exhalation right so close your eyes sit
up straight yeah and find the moment
where inhalation becomes exhalation
I'm sitting up straight and I'm finding
the moment when inhalation becomes
exhalation is this straight this is not
that straight is it straight enough for
you your spine should be straight you
can be leaning back that's okay but your
spine should be straight it is straight
I think yeah that's the most impotant
RIE this at home too so we're going and
then there's this moment here the
problem yeah so funny find the moment so
that in the parabola there is a smaller
parabola right because at the beginning
of the parabola yeah so zoom in and find
the moment okay got it
I found it okay so you found it so so
are you finding a point or is it a
parabola it's a parabola so then then
how can you find the moment if it's a
parabola because a parabola describes
the refuge I found the range find the
moment because at one point its
inhalation at one point its exhalation
right there must be a trap we must we
must step back here and discuss this ie
finding a range to me is identical to
finding a moment because there's we can
keep dividing moments into infant s amol
amounts of time forever there's no
even if you find a moment it's not I
mean it could be divided further right
so we're just looking at it as a range
how comfortable are you with it being a
range and not a moment super comfortable
super comfortable yeah because a moment
a moment is the same thing a moment is a
range also a moment is arranged
yeah sure a moment is arranged okay I
mean logically yeah no I guess I forget
it logically just I'm asking about the
conviction of your belief I'm not trying
to poke holes in your argument yeah
moment is a range between her saying yes
and her saying no is what between her
saying yes and her saying no is tension
and what is that tension a rain between
inhalation and exhalation there is what
and you are you are looking for you
cannot sit in that range so you must
practice sitting in the wrench because I
know you're capable of it I see but it's
not exactly my issue my issue is I know
this range exists and I'm uncomfortable
knowing it's arranged and don't have to
know any further so with most people
maybe that would be the issue that's not
mine what's your issue
why are you uncomfortable with the
uncertainty I don't know and we're still
trying to figure it out right so I I
think I think it's because you can be
comfortable with a range when it comes
to the breath but you are not
comfortable with the range that's what
the very definition of the uncertainty
is you want it to be a moment but I want
it to be my camera got so bright why
does it auto adjusting like that much
it's not good I'll just be dark I want
it to be
I want to know I'm accepted absolutely
I completely agree it's simpler than
then what yeah I just want to know I
complete so getting rejected then
because you just want to know it's not
about being accepted or rejected you
just want to know because in this
instance you are not uncomfortable with
arranged right you're the very
definition if you say I just want to
know you want to be squarely in an
inhalation or squarely an exhalation
you're fine with either side of the
middle of the parabola but it's in that
middle area where you are just intensely
uncomfortable does that make sense
of course it makes us the problem is
that when you become attached to a
relationship you cannot see what
otherwise you understand that didn't
make sense when I become attached to a
relationship I cannot see what life you
otherwise understand so you are
completely comfortable with the idea
that there is no inhalation and there is
no exhalation and that there's something
in the middle which is the parabola and
that if we think about that the parabola
is like the uncertainty of the breath
okay does that make sense yes but right
now your mind is calm and clear so you
are able to live in that uncertainty
without it torturing you it's just
simple there's nothing to worry about
there's no inhalation you're not
stressed out about it it's just it's a
parabola and use say that with utmost
conviction that there is no moment it's
just a range and you're comfortable with
that range yep and range is uncertainty
right like that's like it's like kind of
the same thing with that's what you're
saying
is that you cannot define it it is like
it's a race not this doesn't mean it's
uncertain though it's there
there's the range absolutely and and
when we think about her saying not
saying yes or not saying no there's a
random certainty that's uncertainty she
could say yes she could say no because
there is a binary answer at the end
whereas my breath with the breath there
really is something in between when you
say Oh an exhale then I encourage you so
I do not think both of those statements
can be true so I'd say zoom into the
parabola even further and look for the
binary answer that's the whole point
right so the point of the exercises
don't find find the moment where
inhalation becomes exhalation oh I guess
it's a it's a fun thing to help you zoom
in on the breath of an anchor right sure
that why we do it okay we do it for all
kinds of reasons that's one right there
okay I mean I can find the center of the
parabola it range the range that is in
the center of the parabola so zoom in
further then there's another range
absolutely and another range in another
range in another edge but you know at
some point like from this very simple
like physiologic standpoint at some
point you are not inhaling or inhalation
becomes that oh [ __ ] you're right yeah
yeah yeah right right okay yeah at some
point we're doing the other thing yes
that's the point like if it vacuums
earth odd or exactly right at some point
you're no longer inhaling in you're
exhaling I see you smart
so then there must be a transition and
you can detect the range of the
transition but this is why you have to
practice this technique but we can't
find we okay then I got counter that we
can't find the point right because it's
too small a range of time that if we'd
have to go to slow down time to find it
exactly so this is where if we think
about it right so like if we think about
a practice skill when I play Wow
battlegrounds my perception of time is
way too fast watch I was about to say I
didn't not stop saying pay but I would
[ __ ] love dude so funny please I used
to play warlock and I used to be on the
one hand really bad but also on the
other hand at times close to being a top
top of my server but uh but also really
bad like nowhere near like someone who's
actually better battlegrounds I would
love to not top of my server what's the
top rank okay I mean what the [ __ ]
you're talking about
they're like echelons right no sorry not
battlegrounds in arena arena yeah you
were gladiator I know I was gone doulas
the one under yeah I was like duelist
and had an option so I invited I had a I
had a claim that was gladiator that
invited me to join cuz I thought they
were good enough to join their PvP team
but I just didn't at the time so I turn
them down but I think I could have
listened I didn't have the time thing
that's that's a cop-out okay maybe you
didn't fine with the amount of time you
had you weren't good enough to do it
absolutely completely agree and may have
not never been you at the time you might
have not made it either completely agree
okay so you shouldn't talk like that
fair enough
alright yeah there we go but case in
point so it's my first that stuff makes
me want to be your friend and not your
patient
yeah so let's okay we have
to that in a second but let's let's not
get distracted so my perception of time
and battlegrounds is way faster than
your perception of time sorry but also
PvP arena all right so it's going fast
for me physically it's going so slow
yeah I'm just like oh my god this games
I'm just waiting for I've listened to a
YouTube video of you playing
battlegrounds and I was amazed arena
arena arena sorry I was amazed by your
ability to describe what is happening
and what is gonna happen next
it felt like it was slow-mo like when I
go into PvP arena it's just like I feel
like I've I'm being dropped from a
skyscraper and then before I know it
like my fell Hound is dead and all of my
man has been drained fell hunter yeah
I'll explain it it's because you just
get to know all the abilities well you
already know you already know this but
you get to know all the abilities of
every character and their cooldowns so
you get to know that there's nothing
that can happen to me in the next 10
seconds because Rogue doesn't have
kidney shot and he doesn't have vanished
right now and I cannot be stunned I'm
just chilling so I'm not in tension
because I know it's guy goes back to the
other thing
I just know nothing can happen to me so
I'm chilling you know and then I think
but I know all their abilities of all
three and yeah so your ability you learn
your ability to process who is using
what abilities on the enemy team
requires a slowing down of time that I
don't have so I have I can't keep track
in one second you can track three
abilities from through IVs whereas I can
track half of one this would annoy me
actually through add-on so just do it
for you but in tournaments at the time
you weren't allowed to use that on
switch I liked because then everyone was
honest fair playing field but we're
add-ons are just tracks in the middle of
your screen all the abilities other team
use and I didn't have any play with any
of that I had zero add-ons and then the
people were basically cheating in my
eyes yeah to have it you know because
that you're I mean unless everyone has
it on then you're cheating so so reckful
let me let me just go back to the point
so I think the issue is you're saying
that you have to slow down time and I
completely agree right so you need to
increase your resolution to be able to
detect the transition of the breath the
moment when inhalation becomes
exhalation okay
that comes with practice oh you can do
it yes are you sure
yes I like that you took some time to
answer maybe more comfortable with your
certainty so um I have a question there
okay so I hear a lot about how
meditation will get people into a state
of mind
[Music]
well you tell me a lot
no it'll get me
to a state of mind that where I want to
be really and then it'll translate into
my day to day walking around life not
just wall and meditating right mm-hmm
now what makes it so when I meditate and
when you meditate we're doing the same
thing I completely have no sometimes I
get to the point where I'm not thinking
at all
mm-hmm okay and that's where you are how
do you go farther than not thinking how
are you getting somewhere farther
because not thinking is just the first
step right so that's kind of like so but
it's hard to describe because so like
let's say that it's dark outside and I
can't see anything and I turn on the low
light and so when when there's a low
amount of light or the rods in our eyes
activate and are sensitive to low light
whereas the cones or not so when it's
dark outside the perception that I learn
this the the perception of color is not
there even though you can see like
shapes so think about when it's dark
outside like you don't see the green of
trees they look the same color as the
bark right which is like gray or brown
and then as the my god tonight that
always sees at all the same color
he's color bud but okay I wonder so he's
probably red-green color blind or is he
completely colorblind so does that mean
that his cones or rods aren't working
that is if your dad is called so cones
perceive color and rods perceive black
and white
so his cones of green are not working I
think he sees a tree is one color yeah
so I don't know particularly what's
going on with oh yeah oh man men are
usually red-green color blind because
the the gene for color is on I think
actually one x chromosome so what is red
and what does red green mean they can't
see red and green that they can't tell
the difference between red and green
what yeah you tell them
in red and green okay yeah I'm uses
different okay I get it okay that sounds
crazy now bill tell difference of red
green goddamn I'll guess some people are
like that that's a common one yeah for
men red and green are [ __ ] different
yeah see I feel bad yeah I get it let's
go back to your question yeah which was
which was how is something possible
beyond shutting off the mind so I would
describe so I'll use an analogy first
then I'll kind of give you a simple
answer so like if we think about the
perception of light there's complete
blindness and then there's low-level
light and qualitatively being able to
see or not see shapes is different from
qualitatively being able to see colors
as the amount of light in the room
increases you start to differentiate
color where before between black and
white I mean between darkness and light
all you could see was shapes you with me
darkness and light all I could see was
shapes I'm trying to follow you but I
keep thinking about other things and I'm
really not wanting to do that I really
want to focus okay while you were
talking I was thinking about how it'd be
nice to get tell but are in a call on
stream sometime my friend and I'm the
designer I'm a game
yup and then I was also thinking about
how he wouldn't know how to fix my chair
so I could be more comfortable and then
there's construction and then I'm really
having a hard time focusing and I've
seen I thought f2p and I was thing about
I wish I could overcome all these
thoughts and just focus on what you're
doing and then I was thinking about how
you could probably do that kind of stuff
because you've meditated a lot
okay good so it's good that you notice
the floor you did fonts yeah but did you
look you weren't listening at the very
end sure I was you sure you were I think
yeah oh okay
III just don't just because you involved
me with the last statement doesn't mean
I'm gonna treat any of the other that
statement is different from any other
thoughts right those are the thoughts
just random thoughts some of them
involve me some don't that's fine yeah
yeah yeah that's not what I was talk
about yeah let's keep going okay I'm
[ __ ] I'm messing us up okay so okay
that's what I always thought my see I
keep messing us up the [ __ ]
construction dude okay what do I do
so you can you drown out this
construction noise and can you help me
meditate through it and just littraire
saying yeah but if you're if you're
meditating you're not listening to what
I'm saying
right cuz only meditate meditate now
meditate now and then it'll help me
learn to focus okay let's go I can focus
and then I can if you want to focus and
you want to calm down an act of mind
we're gonna give you a different
technique okay so this is one we've done
before
it's alternate nostril breathing this I
think will calm down your mind okay so
sit up straight let me see this symbol
okay okay that's okay you can't be like
that it's not for the record for anyone
who's confused about not being able to
do this the tendons in your hand are not
all individual forefinger control so
like there's one tendon that controls
like these two fingers which is why like
it's hard to not do it's it's just
because your fingers aren't actually
individually controlled by the ten comes
very sad that this is the farthest I can
go I know I get it the tendon yeah I get
it yeah yeah so so it's it's really
actually complicated so you have like
some tendons that control multiple
fingers then you have smaller tendons
that control individual fingers so it's
not like a deficiency it's just how
we're wired so yeah
sit up straight so thumb on the right
nostril and breathe in through the left
thumb on the right nostril and breathing
through the left yeah and then switch to
the other side block the other nostril
and breathe out
I'm blocking it with these two uh-huh
[ __ ] [ __ ] why is that my
initial thought there's somebody is just
job to do construction on the one above
me to make it look nice and my thought
was this [ __ ] [ __ ] that's not
a good the hut it's not think that yes
oh okay we'll keep going
okay so rectal I'm really sucking it I'm
really terrible I'm sorry let me take a
piss so I guess the question chat
because we talked about this last time
is does psilocybin produce the same
effect as meditation and I think my
initial answer to that is that I think
that you can have similar experiences of
consciousness in terms of D realization
and depersonalization but it was my
belief that a big difference between
psilocybin in the practice of meditation
is that meditation also teaches you a
practice of being able to focus your
mind and I believe reckful felt like in
states of psilocybin he was also able to
focus his mind right that he learned the
same thing so I'm curious about that I
don't know because I've never tried and
I think that sometimes the mind is
distracted right so we have to meet
people where they are and if your mind
is distracted that's okay it's not the
end of the world
so a lot of people are asking or want me
to ask reckful whether he took shrooms
today right well people are asking about
my opinion some people are assuming that
he did take shrooms I want you guys to
really stop and think about what the
purpose of asking that question is like
if the answer that question was yes how
would you feel about it what emotions
would come up because I'm damn sure
emotions would come up for you guys and
if the answer was no what would come up
how would you feel
can anyone does anybody know
yeah right so like exactly so notice
that within yourself and ask yourself
what do I do I stream what are we here
for and does it matter at all whether
reckful is on psilocybin right now or
not for what our goal is
reckful a lot of we don't have to talk
about this I'm just sharing with you the
I don't know how much of that
conversation you got I heard a little
bit some speakers uh yeah you reckon oh
you know why they are so curious yep
so supply line why are they so curious I
think there's a certain voyeurism to
whether you're on shrooms or not so like
I think people will feel people like
feeling right okay so so like I think
and a lot of times like when you have a
hypothesis it's very satisfying to feel
right I just don't think that that
question is relevant at all to like what
we're actually doing here what do you
think I agree with you
I was now that especially now that we've
done it on and off I think there are
certain topics that can be explored
better on so Simon and certain topics
can be explored better off because maybe
I'd actually be uncomfortable or not go
deep into a certain topic off of it but
then ah but then off off I could also
you'd be better at commenting now that
you've seen me both ways I think it's a
little different but either way we can
accomplish a lot yes I do not think we
will accomplish the same things yeah I
think we can accomplish a lot
I completely agree and I think it's
important I know so like this is like
we're you know we have to take a step
back and ask ourselves what's more
important do we want to be entertainers
on Twitch or do we actually want to help
people because if we weren't able if we
want to be entertainers then we go down
the road of asking reckful whether he's
on psilocybin or not and then we laugh
or joke about his ability to be
distracted and whatnot and I don't think
that that actually serves our purpose at
all I frankly I don't care I think
everyone should understand that at times
mind is distracted whether you on a
substance whether you were emotionally
upset or anything like that at times
your mind does not do the things that
you want it to do so in my mind there
may be also be people who are tuning in
because they want to see some kind of
emotional explosion from reckful and
they want to see him have an aha moment
and stuff like that and I I get that
right that's good that's good twitch
it's like good streaming and it's fun to
watch but I want everyone to understand
that like right now reckful I mean I
don't think it's good or bad it's just
at this moment he is noticing with
himself that he is distracted and yeah
at home does not struggle with the same
[ __ ] thing exactly so I noticed I'm
getting distracted a lot and I want to
focus and I know that you would be able
to train me and to focus better yes yes
so that site it I'm excited to learn how
to focus better so let's try one more
time and if not we'll try a different
meditation technique sure let's do it
yeah so sit up straight I'm over here
actually try this just use can you do
this link your thumb and your ring
finger thumb and ring finger yeah not
not index finger ring finger thumb and
ring thing oh there yeah that you can do
okay so now I have a just just so you
know because I get uncomfortable about
it I haven't actual like I'm
significantly below average at certain
tasks it may be like um I have an 80 IQ
at like shapes and I don't remember
exactly the okay there's certain things
some certain things I have like 80 IQ
with and let's say one of them's like
shapes and seeing rotations and like I
can't my brain can't do that so I'm just
just these things are take really long
for me that I just want you to know
that's all okay so let's just talk about
that for a second do you feel insecure
about lacking that capability I'm not
insecure as long as people know no I
just don't want people to wonder why
it's taking me so long
always with these kind of things I just
rather they know hey I'm like I'm
challenged with okay so did I tell you
how I feel about that yeah yeah okay so
just real quick I can
careless the important thing is that we
meet you where you are and we get you to
where you need to go if you're impaired
if you're brilliant if you're cut like
we just have to meet you where you are
no judgement and just get you to where
we want you to go yeah we try things and
I try let me agree okay
I completely agree just sometimes people
when I'm streaming for eight years I've
noticed people are like how the [ __ ] can
he not do this like I can't and I'm just
I always have to feel like I have to
explain if I don't have to yeah okay
let's go okay so you can so we're gonna
try a slightly different method okay so
I'm gonna do so this is gonna be hard
for you to see so I'm gonna do thumb and
ring finger we're gonna go like this
okay instead of doing this so doing this
because this can be challenging for
something yeah good and so the only
other thing is I'm gonna raise my hand a
little bit so it's gonna be like you're
not gonna be able to see my face but so
breathe in
so thumb over here Bri then ring finger
to block the other one to breathe out
breathe in through the same nostril
switch and out in switch out
in switch-out good now close your eyes
sit up straight and continue at your own
pace okay keep going no keep going
and everyone who's watching should do
this to only switch on an exhale sweep
which after inhale yeah yeah switch with
a full breath yeah it's a matter of
where we're defining in the beginning
good reckful you're learning so i've
cautious about that sound
you
keep going you can stop I don't feel
good okay really nice yeah
how's your mind yeah come I don't know
if I can focus better yet but I know
that I'm very calm although I must
mention he shut up for a second the
construction can you hear the
construction so he happened to shut up
around that time shut up his Abed
working out and stopped so it helped me
be calm but way am I still calm okay if
there's construction I'm calm I got this
okay by the way our long-term is very
dark now yeah it kept auto adjusting I
need a check I need to mess with I don't
want it to auto adjust that's perfect
down yeah that's right how do you feel
um I I feel I feel hopeful that I can
learn to overcome distraction from you
and that would be amazing for me because
it's a major problem in my life that's
all good so I'm I'm wondering do you do
you feel like you're talking differently
than before mmm-hmm I wouldn't have
guessed it but now that you mention it
I'm probably more calm they talking
absolutely right so you were saying
three or four different things that were
a little bit disconnected and you were
moving around from place to place now I
expect that to return over time which is
okay so what was it yes
that's sort of part of it yeah okay
and so help me understand how you would
like to spend the remainder of our time
today let's say like we have another 20
minutes what would I like to do yeah so
what are you cuz we've opened allotted
okay okay yeah let's let's focus on how
to focus okay but with active I want to
use an active thought method maybe
that's not the right way well what do I
actively think to tell myself to focus
or do I have to stop thinking so focus
is not tell about telling yourself
anything it is about doing something
with the attention of your mind so
telling yourself something is thoughts
this I I'm really doing obviously this
stuff I'd love for you to explain so
let's just start by like if you tell
yourself something that as a thought yes
focusing your mind is not about thoughts
it's about directing the thinking
machine in a particular direction got it
okay so we're the controller here this
is us and then we think thoughts okay we
think thoughts and then there's a lot of
disconnected thoughts happening we need
to learn to direct this though to just
go in just one direction yes but it's
very good that you're first of all
realizing so like the production of
thoughts cannot if we're learning to
direct to this I've actually okay I read
a book called mind hacking no it's about
how can your own mind and it kept
mentioning that there's this who are we
are we this thing or if we're able to
figure out how to direct this thing then
worse than something a higher the
consciousness okay it's interesting to
me we'll talk about another time anyway
good what did you just do reckful trying
to direct ourselves back to the
conversation very good and you weren't
able to do that about 60 seconds ago
right it was harder for you I'm not a
weren't able was harder for you the
amount of time that you spent on a
tangent was greater that so how did you
do that did you have a thought just now
oh I need to stop talking about this no
you didn't you just stop talking about
it
No do you see that so that wasn't a
thought I don't understand it though
that's how he was yeah but but you you
didn't you under self you didn't
convince your son Durst and all this
yeah that's awesome that's a guess I
should have ever heard in my entire life
I completely agree okay like I think
it's the coolest [ __ ] ever as well yeah
so I want people like so like this is
why I loved going to India so like I
lived my whole life not understanding
how the [ __ ] I worked like I don't
understand like when I wake up one day
why do I skip class and when I wake up
another day why do I go to class yeah I
want to know on some days why do I fall
asleep it why do I go to bed at 10:00
p.m. like I'm supposed to like a good
student and other days why do I stay up
till 4:00 in the morning playing
Warcraft 3 yes and not even just regular
work after me but Warcraft 3 like custom
games like UMS like that's not even real
war 3 it's like thrashing war 3 no no
the custom games a [ __ ] awesome yeah
yeah but even even I felt like playing
like like grinding ladder was like
actually doing something right like
playing costing games is just wasting
your [ __ ] time you know what I mean
no that I don't like how you're thinking
at all ok anyway I enjoy it I loved it
right but no just driving ladder being
doing that's a toxic thought process I
think I used to be on that thought
process what writing a lot it means
you're doing something and oh I'm seeing
this number get bigger but it's all it's
all just an abstraction of it you're
playing a game to have fun
if custom games are fun you should be
playing those if you need the number to
be growing to have fun there's a deeper
problem you need to step back from I
completely agree but I absolutely had
that deeper problem right where my sense
of value or self-worth was tied to like
just like even today you asked me what
rank was I in PvP right that has found
its annoying yet the thing is I I
wouldn't have been able to overcome this
problem and I'd still be stuck in the
loop of wanting to have a higher rating
if I didn't reach the highest rating yes
then there was nowhere else else to go
it was a point where Blizzard had to
patch the game so I could go higher
rated because I hit the cap first 9000
you couldn't go higher and they had to
actually make do up make a patch so
could get high rated I completely agree
I was actually person there this little
yeah yeah and this goes back to your art
gallery why would the I'm not trying to
do it just to brag I'm trying to say no
no I'm trying to say that I getting
there allowed me to step back and
realize oh I don't need to be on this
grind for the higher number forever I
should just play the game to enjoy it
it's really difficult
I completely claim because then you
don't end up playing as much if you're
not playing for the number to get bigger
you don't end up playing as much and
then you don't end up being as good and
mean when you're not as good you can't
play with those same teammates who are
really fun oh well my team has just
happened to be good as well I don't know
so reckful I'm gonna pause first and ask
ask you to apply what we're talking
about to what you're talking about okay
so when you came to this I'm trying to
figure out how to say this without you
didn't you understood this first in
terms of like why the grind is futile
and not a good investment of your time
and then you understood the logic of it
later right yeah like you came to a
realization and then afterward the logic
got into place but essentially the
realize you're right you're right okay
so now we get to like this issue of how
do we direct attention because it
doesn't come from the mind so you
realize something without actually using
your active thought process the reducing
it doesn't come from the mind what what
do we define where it comes from how is
just a word so we could have a go to
work consciousness simplest word
consciousness
okay so consciousness is the director of
the mind and yes and what so I think
there are different pieces but I think
generally speaking the mind so the
consciousness is the controller of the
mind consciousness is the controller of
the mind but we can be conscious without
mind when we meditate is what yes right
yeah okay so when we're conscious
without mind oh the consciousness never
directs anything other than the mind
though so just as it directs the one
thing and that thing can sometimes be
off with the other thing being on yeah I
mean so you could say that the
consciousness can also direct the body
because it's
our body functions without mental
thought right so there's directs the
body and the mind I've never really
thought about it like that but I I mean
I'm I like look about like this is very
cool right so we have consciousness
which is are actually consciousness
doesn't really uh it's true a sense
consciousness actually does not direct
anything all it is is consciousness is
our capacity for awareness consciousness
is our capacity for awareness
consciousness is where it sounds
intelligent as [ __ ] but I have to
understand what it means hold on
consciousness is our capacity for
awareness so reckful I'm starting to get
it I kind of a little bit get it I don't
okay so so so I want you to rub your
beard and just close your eyes and rub
your beard for a second and just feel
the sensation now you're noticing of the
sensation is that a thought I didn't
think anything but you're still
experiencing something right so that is
consciousness there's no thinking
there's no one analysis can come after
so you can have thoughts about it like
oh man like this feels raw for this
feels soft
all of those analytical thoughts are of
the mind but the actual noticing thing
is only the consciousness now I here's a
part where I'm not sure you're right
okay
I keep me mentioning on my stream all
the time that goes back to the split
brain experiment again he goes back to
the split brain experiment I could be
noticing things without thinking them
you'll see what the split brain patients
they'll like try to pick out their
article of clothing they want to wear
for the day and then the other hand will
knock it out and they'll pick something
else it's really yeah insane yeah then
it could just be that other side of the
brain though that is what is noticing
that I'm the right side of the brain
could be noticing that I'm rubbing my
beard
it doesn't thinking thoughts though
brain and mind in consciousness right so
to a conscious we're abstracting past
the brain we're not thinking about the
brain no because because consciousness
and mind are words that we use to
describe the experience of what goes on
in our head right there has nothing to
do with so I have no doubt that there is
a part of a brand alert I'm cocky but
sorry it's really hard so there's
absolutely a part of brain that
consciousness comes from and there's
absolutely a part of thoughts that
consciousness comes from okay
right we know that because when you
meditate we don't know where we I mean
you can't figure out what the [ __ ] does
consciousness come from that's the hard
problem right it's called the hard
problem well sort of but like I mean we
know that if you take a eg electrodes
and plug them up to your brain and as
you enter a state of meditation that
state is distinct from the state of
mental activity which is distinct from
the state of sleep which is distinct
from the state of dreaming right so we
know that these are all physical
representations those are the four
states that's it
I mean dreaming dreaming meditation
dreaming meditation sleeping and with
the normal
not consciousness thinking consciousness
okay thinking thinking is better not
consciousness so conscious consciousness
without thought is one so let's just
think about this you can have your
consciousness active and you can have
your mind active or you can have him
victim like I thought it again I thought
this [ __ ] [ __ ] but it's not
he's not a bad person why do I keep
thinking that what are you talking about
the construction there's a guy [ __ ]
doing construction above my head yeah
yeah right
reckful right now your mind is something
that that we call stimulus bound which
is that generally speaking your mind has
the capacity to filter out stimuli that
are not relevant to what you're doing
and as you as you become more stimulus
bound your capacity your minds ability
your brain's ability to filter out
stimuli it does it better when it's
regular and not irregular though you
completely agree so the stimulus found
is is attenuating a stimulus so if you
like walk into a room you'll notice that
people are talking and if you're in that
room and there's background chatter your
body your brain will acclimatize to that
stimulus and you'll stop noticing it
right that's normal that's actually how
meditation works by the way so what you
do with meditation is that I'll take
your headaches but yeah so as you know
as you put your attention on just one
thing so you can't empty your mind what
you can do is force your mind or try to
direct your mind to just notice one
thing and you can use one thought or one
sensation to push out everything else
and then over time your mind acclimatize
--is to that last thought and then that
goes away and then you're left with an
empty mind got it does that make sense
so as we we use the
to knock out all of the other thoughts
and if we do the practice long enough
eventually we'll even lose track of the
breath in the same way that you
acclimatize to other things and then
you're left with nothing but
consciousness so getting back to the
original question then how when you're
meditating do you go further than just
not thinking what is the next step the
best way I can describe it or what's
used as higher levels of consciousness
right so consciousness is not one thing
they're different in the same way that
mind has different states right so it
has anxiety fear excitement a high level
of activity a slow level of activity
like sitting back like enjoying things
being stressed out the mind has a lot of
different fluctuations and consciousness
in that way has different levels of
fluctuations I mean I wouldn't call them
fluctuations I think they're more teared
than just like lateral fluctuations but
there are different states of
consciousness so ok I know I would think
this is complete mumbo-jumbo except that
I've actually experienced a higher state
of consciousness so I'd know he's
talking about yeah so anyone who hasn't
experienced this so this goes back to
logic and knowledge right so you had
this realization about the wow ladder
and the grind and stuff like that and
then that realization can't come from
the mind it actually comes from
somewhere else and then your mind
understands that afterward if you think
about the breath practice and sorry if
I'm bouncing around too much but in the
breath practice you noticed something
about the breath and then you recruited
your mind to be able to explain it and
come up with the word parabola yes does
that make sense so that is consciousness
directing the mind to be like hey I want
you to tell me what this is or let's
think about this like let's understand
what we already know gross we got to
figure this out
exactly but you already have the answer
do i yeah because you but but the it's
not it's not the product of logic right
you figure it out first and then your
logical mind understands it afterward no
figure it out first you you feel like
you're close to figuring it out you know
the conclusion and then yes I mind to
clarify to make it very good because
figuring it out the that verb is more
mental activity but like you said you
you start with the conclusion which like
is actually kind of mind-blowing [ __ ]
him love talking you by the way is so
cool okay sorry that's okay I appreciate
the compliment it's just so for you
here's a big disconnect I think for
people on Twitch and you see you've
probably been talking to people similar
to you for a long time because you went
to I didn't go to it you went to a good
school and you're talking to colleagues
or you call them colleagues I don't know
you're in tears you're talking to peers
at a good school all the time
now with I went to UT Austin which is
like a pretty good school but it's also
like you know so oh you weren't here
yeah okay but we regard I'm regardless I
dropped out of high school right okay so
the only people I'm talking to are all
sitting at home playing games which is
fine but [ __ ] what am I trying to say
it sounds like you're making a
comparison of some kind of why is way
all of us gamers sitting on here on
Twitch we haven't heard we haven't
gotten to experience conversations like
the ones you have regularly I think okay
and then it's really nice as soon as I'm
in it Wow like I'm stimulated my mind is
stimulated I'm learning and you're
making it fun to learn for me and
usually it wasn't fun
well I'm glad you feel that way I would
also be I mean to be honest reckful I
think some of the most profound and
awesome conversations that I've had her
with gamers who are going nowhere in
life like you know III don't think you
need to be at a top-tier institution and
I firmly believe this like part of the
reason that I stream on Twitch it's
funny so I talk more about what I truly
believe on Twitch then I do at HMS
because I think the people here are more
open-minded willing to listen and able
to learn than people in like a top to
your academic institution do you think
you've learned anything from us for most
which people taunts really every single
day man cool you're learning something
for me absolutely you're not just saying
that
no okay so reckful think I probably a
second yeah I mean other than I think
it's something useful other than how to
use but you know the technology so
reckful let's pause for a second how am
I able to do what I am doing what makes
me good at this you can relate okay what
does that mean like how does one lot
that's not really what it is though I
don't [ __ ] know why you're good I
just know you are it's because you're
teaching me in this moment I don't I
don't believe that I maybe I have low
self-esteem or something no no you do it
maybe you have low self-esteem but
understand so like like this is me
getting XP for all of the other
conversations every response you give me
helps me understand like a future
conversation in a slightly different way
every person that I talked to helps me
understand the condition of humanity all
I think if I weren't me I could believe
you yeah and then we got to get to the
issue of like why you can't believe that
about yourself right why do you need
validation why do you talked about right
so where where despite all of your
amazing successes and being rectal
gladiator and doing this and doing that
and
and all the other stuff that you've done
successfully why is it that you cannot
vote is restful gladiator that that's
the video that I saw that was six
[ __ ] old yeah that's mm yeah nine
maybe they got taken down from YouTube
yeah
so despite all of these things despite
Blizzard having to patch the game so
that you can continue to grow why is it
that you can't believe this about
yourself why is it that you I believe
I'm good at I was good at that game why
do you not have inherent value and
yourself as a person I would love to
know that how long have you felt that
way my whole life I don't think long as
I can remember as long as I can remember
do you feel like your so you don't feel
like you're good enough it's not like
I'm going in for a test that I need to
be good enough for it it's just that I
don't I don't feel my value being added
just situations I feel like if I were
dead it'd be the same just one guy 7
billion people maybe almost 8 now who
knows I think we're sitting at 7.5 I'm
just gonna I'm gonna think for a second
okay
need more water - I know what happened
here but I didn't understand it right
away it's drinking almond milk yesterday
didn't clean this cup drink water out of
it and there's some gross looking [ __ ]
in here I was debating whether I show
you guys probably nobody wants to see
I'll just go clean the cup and drink yes
so I when you guys say something like
low self-esteem that's not a reason
that's a sin in them right like I mean
so not enough meditation is also
something that that's not the reason why
that's a solution potentially but it
doesn't help us understand like this is
an issue of diagnosis not of treatment
so possible right so the easy answer is
that this goes back to abandonment and
him losing his brother like that's
something that you know us psychiatrists
and therapists love to come back to is
defaulting to the answer of oh that's
the cause of all of his problems but I
think defaulting to his dad
I mean his brother is actually like
intellectually lazy and possibly doing
him into service
so arrogance deep inside it's not the
arrogance that's deep inside so
understand this when you have low
self-esteem
arrogance isn't deep inside arrogance is
on the outside and the low self-esteem
is on the inside that's what narcissism
is right a belief that other people
should treat you like you're the best in
the world and the belief in yourself
that you're the worst in the world
that's narcissism arrogance is on the
outside low self-esteem is on the inside
so it's not he's not deeply arrogant I
don't think so you very I don't know
with that if anyone's deeply arrogant
its me see you're not gonna see it
so bullied right open rifles chat okay
it's open okay so I could just not do
the construction but then I was thinking
about whether it's better to try to deal
with a construction you know what I'm
saying like to try to get used to it and
overcome what I'm hearing it okay what
do you think I crash in awhile I think
you should use noise cancelling
headphones I think you should be where
you are and don't confuse where you are
with where you want to go because those
are very different things and it takes
time to get to where you want to go I'm
confused where I am right so one day in
theory you would be able to do this
without noise cancelling headphones we
don't know how bad the construction is
but you shouldn't blame yourself for
wanting to use it I think it's smart
reckful do you know why everyone in your
and your chat is talking about [ __ ] wait
everybody might shut is talking about
[ __ ] yeah anyway what's Chuck can you
guys what happened today are you guys
okay
[ __ ] mm-hmm anyway let's date nobody I'm
just what you just did they they're so
happy that this happened what's now that
you noticed that they were spamming [ __ ]
that was the goal that's like they were
doing it okay
just they got you nice
it'll be the first not the first time
and not the last I'm just I'm still I'm
just a sad boomer trying to understand
twitch and I think I've discovered I
think I've di think I I don't I think
I've finally decoded pong by the way I
can't believe how many times you stutter
try to say that's really funny
absolutely alright so POG is just
something that you add randomly to the
end of other things right randomly yeah
I'm insulted it's like like so now I
would say insulted pong doesn't that
work yes but that's not random it
doesn't work to do it you could so that
I could say it's not random POG that
works too right yeah but okay the thing
is do you know do you know what being do
you know what being me on Twitch feels
like it feels like being in AI trying to
pass the Turing test that's funny it's
like I'm trying guys don't know that
Turing test is something to tell if an a
if something passes the Turing test me I
pass the Turing test it means you can't
tell it wasn't a human so I'm trying
really hard to not be a boomer and I
think I can mimic it but I really don't
understand it because at the end of the
day I'm not human and I'm just an AI so
then I would say just an AI POG they
always think I'm the one on psilocybin
that sentence was crazy right to it yeah
anyway so let's let's go let's try to
actually help you a little bit so so you
have this belief that you know you don't
have Val value I had value right now
teaching about twitch it's a little bit
right a little bit sure but I don't
usually feel like I have much value
um I wonder if it'll change as I do
bigger things but it's not doesn't seem
to be so like I've done a lot of things
in my life now especially now still
isn't changing that I don't feel like I
have value oh the only reason the only
reason why I'm sad I don't and I no
longer consider like jumping off the
hedge is because I think when I'm sad I
think about other people who would be
affected okay I'm glad that's keeping
you going and I want to actually this is
gonna be in a sense maybe way harder but
in a sense those people so those people
I'm adding value yes but I let's forget
about all that for a second I was gonna
say something that I think was a little
bit more complicated and harder to
digest but I will say this so there is a
difference between having value and
feeling like you have value yes mm-hmm
right so do you have value or do you
feel like you lack value I know
logically that I have value but I don't
feel it okay there are times when you
feel it right once in a while someone
will say man you really like I'll get
these even long emails actually like man
you really get you a lot recently
just tell him people tell me I changed
their life in a good way and then uh
while I'm reading it I'll feel valued
but then if I got a bunch of them that
day and they kind of blended together
then on the fifth one I read I wouldn't
feel value okay so now fine so I want
you to just notice that your sense of
value determines on is determined based
upon your feelings it's dependent on my
feelings my sense of value is dependent
on my feelings yes because you're
telling me that when you read something
I think it's dependent on other people's
feelings well that's true as well but
other people so I don't think it's
depend on other people's feelings
precisely so if we understand how the
mind works other people's behaviors make
you feel a certain way other people's
behaviors make me feel a certain way and
if they're giving me a positive feedback
a lot that I'm having a sense of
self-worth
yeah but the feeling is on your end it's
actually not their feeling it's your
feeling okay feeling was the wrong word
for it yeah right so so I first of all I
want you to stop and think for a moment
about whether one should can whether one
should base what they know on their
feelings whether one should base what
they know on their feelings no they
should not
okay so that's the first thing right so
there are different sources of knowledge
there is the there is something that I'm
gonna call intuition or realization or
consciousness or experience like that's
one bucket of knowledge that's called
neon so the Sanskrit word is neon G&Y
a.n okay the what word Sanskrit Sanskrit
yeah so for example reckful can you do
all that so I just remember Si and SK
RIT
Sanskrit yes that's in that word so do
you know what a strawberry tastes like
yeah what does it taste like
couldn't tell you in words but I know it
is
exactly that's neon right so when you
when we're thinking about whether
grinding to get to gladiator rank is
important or not important you had a
realization one day where you understood
a bunch of stuff you understood some na
what nya n g + y EI n g n yn it's a yawn
yeah there's like a weird sound you know
it has like nut that doesn't exist in
the English language chat notes or J and
J and yn is the other way they they get
strands to hit Y yeah I like the G okay
so yeah yes yeah it's like yin yang yang
we bowed Yan Yun but so one source of
knowledge is neon right so that's like
experience realization and sometimes
your mind catches up your thoughts catch
up once you figure something out like
you know that you figured it out it
takes some time for your mind to catch
up and be able to explain it or fully
understand it or like break it down into
pieces that the logical mind can
understand another source of of
knowledge is Vidya so Vidya VI dy a is
information is objective and is
transmissible so it's information is
subjective and it's transmissible yes
right so in a text book is full of Vidya
you can read a textbook through from
cover to cover and never understand
something yeah right you can memorize
without understanding
yeah just shitty videos in there right
and so the person who has neon can write
a textbook so you can have equals
mc-squared and understand what that
means and then you can write an entire
textbook does that make sense I can have
e equals mc-squared and our Senate that
means and I get right into our textbook
does that make sense
No
it does not okay so like you know we
have physics textbooks
and physics textbooks are designed
through doing video over and over again
as you do problems and equations and
stuff at some point hopefully you get a
light bulb when you're studying
something and then you get it it clicks
I mean once you it clicks you no longer
need the textbook in fact if a student
is struggling to understand it you can
go to them and you can explain to them
in a way that's better than the textbook
right yes
so neon is about like understanding the
core thing like you can explain this
concept of chase 11-ton actually neon is
the best neon is completely the best
completely agree our site yeah I always
feel like someone asked me what does
that taste like like what you did with
the strawberry and microphone was so
good at describing what something tastes
like it was so frustrating cuz you would
want me to describe in words what it
tasted like I'm I don't [ __ ] know I
know what it tastes like dude but yeah
tell you yeah so so now what we need to
do so that idea there's I want I want to
transfer a neon to someone else you
can't I know that be sick so so remember
I always said in technology Vidya is
objective transmissible and
informational said you can't I'll figure
it out 50 years from now I'll make a
technology you'll be like okay you have
to find so beyond is subjective not
transmissible although if you want to
develop a technology go for it I I'm
interrupting a reckful dude you guys are
so mad people think I'm so rude I
interrupted all the time it's just how I
talk
should I not do it wait let's like let's
see here his opinion what's your opinion
I think we should try to finish the
conversation instead of talking about
whether to interrupt or not that's funny
okay after so right so like we can say
interruption POG
know before but now we can god and
they're telling you the Boomer within me
is masquerading as whatever it is set to
it genna's and I'm pretending and I'm
hoping that no one notices
no one notices POG you just take a
random ass thing and you just Adam and
he said hog at the end it's not random
once you're actually good you can't say
like I think you could as soon as I say
it that'll be funny you can't say like
you can't say like clock from Santorini
POG but wouldn't that be a great but you
could that's the great POG clock from
Santorini Prague is the best part if
something is going to become a meme from
this show it is clock from Santorini POG
right maybe maybe he's right that you
can actually take anything I maybe I was
thinking too deep it like specifics you
weren't thinking deep enough my friend
you're not deep enough
you're too shallow baby you gotta go
deeper to the essence of POG have neon
of POG reckful no no oil wait when you
say deep here's a question when you say
deep sometimes I mean deep into the
specifics and then there's a high level
version of thinking and there's
specifics but that there's depth to the
specifics you know what I'm saying yeah
and there's depth to the big picture
there's depth in both right yeah yeah
anyway so let's go back to or maybe this
is just a you know we can just call this
aborted fetus what it is but no Yong
Yong yeah so when it comes to you you
you don't have me on a value of yourself
so no amount of convincing will work and
has worked okay that hurt but it was
true right so what we need to do for you
is give you Y on a value of yourself
because once you have me on a value of
yourself no one can convince you
otherwise every they did that hurt okay
okay anyway I'm getting distracted I'm
closing the chat you guys fun okay okay
I closed it
so yeah I don't have the feeling um when
I eat a strawberry and I could tell you
what it tastes like I can't tell you
what it tastes like but I can I know
yeah I know it I can remember the taste
right now I don't have a memory of value
for myself in my head it's not memory a
real is a memory onion onion so to get
this thing out root and stem you must
hire and I don't believe that I will
ever have it of course not
I mean of course you would believe you
would never have it because you've never
had it right it's like it's not as
simple like it's hard to understand or
believe that you will ever know what a
strawberry tastes like I don't have
taste buds that so there's another piece
of this so the first is that we can
cultivate a practice for you where you
develop a sense of self outside of mind
and hopefully have a realization of your
true self that's something we can do the
second thing that we can do is
understand if you've had some kind of
experience or nyaan or some scar of
being value less weight other people
feel a value of themselves what does it
feel like the same way I mean like how
what does strawberry taste like it's you
just know that you have a value yeah so
and this is complicated but close your
eyes it's kind of it's kind of painful
to think that I don't have this thing
you really have a thing you can feel a
value of yourself you can just taste it
you know yeah analogy yeah I don't have
it here's the thing it doesn't taste
what people think it tastes like that's
what I would say right so people
build up this image of what it feels
like but I absolutely have neon of of my
value and the thing is it's not really
value value isn't even the right word
but like value is like the closest thing
in the mind so I want you to close your
eyes I'm not ready
okay I'm ready what were you feeling
reckful I don't know I was feeling sad
that I don't have any value to myself
that is something must be sad about yeah
and I close my eyes now and do the thing
that's okay let's just talk for a second
if that's okay with you
I just it's hard for me to just let that
slide of this you really want me to
let's let it slide for another okay so
close your eyes I want you to find the
moment where inhalation becomes
exhalation and I want you to try for
nine breaths and make them as slow as
possible good
notice the feelings as they arise and
return your attention to the breath
there's a tsunami of sadness inside you
and I want you to breathe and notice
that in between space you don't have to
push the tsunami away you can let it
come and just breathe
find that moment between inhalation and
exhalation find the parabola
be patient with yourself if you have
feelings let yourself feel them and then
return to the breath push nothing away
let it wash over you let the feelings
arise there you go now you're doing it
right so continue to find the parabola
and zoom in a little bit more slow down
time for yourself reckful what I'm
seeing is someone who is sitting in a
place where they are meditating and
looking for their breath and all around
them volcanoes are erupting earthquakes
are happening lightning is striking and
tsunamis are happening feel all of those
things in five the breath
it's okay give yourself some time feel
them find the breath good eruptions will
come let him come it's okay we're here
twitch chat is with you I'm with you
they are with you they are with you you
are not alone so return to the breath a
ray of sunshine [ __ ] bug
[ __ ] puck now return to the breath I'm
just gonna mention it's very hard not to
get distracted by Harvard [ __ ] PhD
psychiatrist saying [ __ ] [ __ ] it's
pretty funny good fine rattling [ __ ] bug
again
sure listen yes listen to the sound of
my voice close your eyes close your eyes
I'm sorry dude I so this dragged it
again
you gotta close your eyes and listen
[ __ ] Punk console usually usually um in
between the emotes and the phrase you
would put a little [ __ ] hog you know
there's like a rooster
like that's what we're talking about
right no there's there's a bit of a
pause to let it be known that don't
think about what I'm saying listen [ __ ]
pug okay not [ __ ] pug cuz [ __ ] pod could
be one word it's not a [ __ ] pug it's a
[ __ ] hog okay now return good now return
to the breath gotcha
beautiful so notice notice the parabola
right there's the inhalation and the
exhalation the inhalation and the
exhalation you really like that I use
the word parabola are you just using it
over and over for fun I think it's a
very good way of describing with Vidya
Yan that means you understand that that
means you have young
dude is feeling focus repple eyes closed
don't reflect on yon just focus on the
parabola okay and in the middle of the
parabola zoom in now this is your three
more breaths in the middle of the
parabola ask yourself if the person that
is noticing the parabola does that
person have value my answer was no
two more breaths okay I think now open
your eyes I think it's hard
someone who's attempted suicide to find
value in yourself what did you feel
don't presume an answer tell me what you
felt I don't feel anything so this is
gonna sound kind of weird did you find
value in yourself yes or no no no no I
stopped feeling geez I always feel like
things there was erupting like you said
and then I stopped feeling anything and
you were unable to find value in
yourself correct mm-hmm is that a
problem you're telling me it is that I
know no I'm not just what how does it
feel in that moment to be unable to find
value is that a problem in that moment
did you feel distressed no I was okay
how is that possible how can you be okay
when you look within yourself and you do
not find value because I'm just
conscious and not thinking so if I'm
thinking it's not okay but if I'm not
thinking
worry about that yes it doesn't mean
that you're worthless it doesn't mean
that suicide is a good idea it doesn't
mean that you won't hurt people but at
its core what you were feeling
transcends the concept of value or lack
of value it is just what is
consciousness pure and simple there are
eruptions all around you and there is a
person who is meditating on a rock and
you can find that person and you cannot
find value because value in and of
itself is of the mind true and you can
be peaceful in the absence of value hmm
train yourself to be peaceful in that
place and whether you feel value or you
don't feel value underneath you will be
tranquil you don't need value because
value is a feeling it comes and it goes
it is not gone what you just experienced
is just a fraction of yon practice this
every single [ __ ] day get good at it
and you will be a changed person find a
place of tranquility and stability
amidst everything that is erupting
around you and you can [ __ ] find it
so let's say I'm alone
that's okay most of my day times I
really enjoy the day I wake up it's nice
outside and I go for a walk and I've
been I've been taking the little
pictures and videos and you know I like
photography and just just loving good
okay and then I come back from my walk
and I just work on everland for a while
and I love that too and all the people I
talk to you I love them all the
nighttime roll
around and people stopped working on the
game which is reasonable then I try to
transition into a different I mean I
have to transition into enjoying
something else that's not walking
outside and it's sunshine which I like
or working on ever led which I like and
then I don't have anything to do when
it's night time so I'll message reach
out to a lot of people to hang out with
me and I'm really overbearing about it
I'm just like please hang out with me
like I'm so [ __ ] bored like I was
messaging Greek my friend just like
please [ __ ] hang out the police and
he's like I'm really busy like tomorrow
I have that do something I have to do
this I'm sorry like I really love you
but I can't right now you know that's
reasonable what are you saying what I'm
just like so desperate to hang out I
just want something to do at nighttime
it's scary to be there and I'd love to
be able to go into my own world like
this and be okay with being alone I
don't know that I can reach achieve it
you know well I beg to differ because
you say like this right you can't use
that with guidance yeah yeah but but the
point is that you're doing it you're not
saying you useless believe it myself
I don't believe myself to buy it alone
forget it forget it forget about all
that the one thing that I want you to
point out is before you were talking
about hypothetical you were saying I
wish I could find a place like that I
wish I could have what you have and it's
sad to not have it you're saying I wish
I could be like that I wish I could have
that and now you are saying like this
true it's a good stuff very important
stuff in fact it is the only step oh I'm
getting somewhere
you're getting everywhere reckful well
this
already there do you understand what the
word this means this means right in
front of you it means not far away
that's true you've just felt it you need
to cultivate within yourself the
capacity to get to the state over and
over and over again that takes practice
yes it's why for me to get myself to sit
down and just breathe when I'm feeling
overwhelming loneliness it's just like
my brain yes knowing all these thoughts
are so strong there's just so many but
just telling me like why are you alone
and why does no one want to hang out
with you all thoughts all thoughts all
thoughts not consciousness not
consciousness right so train yourself to
be in consciousness practically go to a
yoga class do you do yoga
no but there's actually a yoga class
immediately next to me so go to the yoga
class and if you want I want to go with
someone I don't want to go by myself
well you have a friend okay so start
going with a friend but at some point
you got to start going by yourself I
can't do it yet okay that's okay so
you'll get there right you'll get there
and be patient this was a good talk
today I know it's not over you
necessarily good I think we're in a good
stopping point yeah I made some good
progress so I feel like I need to relax
be patient with yourself be forgiving of
yourself be compassionate of yourself
and remember that within you I I really
hope people watching benefit it also yes
school just remembers people makes me
feel cool it it's such a shitty thought
but it makes me feel cool that I'm
benefiting someone else I think which
are maybe feeling sad about is that
that's the way that you you can't see
value for yourself in order for you to
like make this worthwhile like it has to
help other people which I'm the one hand
is noble but you know you're so I just
want you to have this like just it sear
this image in your mind reckful of you
sitting among cuz you were there man
like I don't know if you know this but
you were there volcanoes lightning
tsunamis earthquakes [ __ ] Pok Pok
[ __ ] fog all around debug tuck bug right
there's the funny thoughts and stating
thoughts right all of them are there and
the breath can be found between all of
it it doesn't matter [ __ ] pagas bag and
earthquakes no can't have anymore [ __ ]
bug so you wouldn't say meditation bug
breath bug right breath hog
Oh pop breath is good you know
meditation hog right not meditation bug
so we need [ __ ] hog get someone to just
Cliff him saying we need [ __ ] I stopped
it here actually this is alright it was
a good session I hope everyone had fun
watching and dr. K I love you I love you
too man and I'll see you guys next time
alright strong work today thank you
everybody
all right like that's just too good
right like he just pauses such a
pregnant pause such a pregnant buff like
that's like that's that's what eyebrows
LSF for that's fair right That's not me
caramel whoring that's just actually
like a really good thing to have on LSF
that's what LSF is made for is to take
things that people say out of context
and meme them right
alright so I'm gonna run a quick ad
break just because I need to take a
minute and then we'll